LAW NO. 21.521PROMOTES FINANCIAL COMPETITION AND INCLUSION THROUGH INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY IN THE PROVISION OF FINANCIAL SERVICES, FINTEC LAWBearing in mind that the Hon. National Congress has given its approval to the followingBill:"TITLE IGeneral provisionsArticle 1.- Objectives of the law and principles. This law aims to establish a general framework to encourage the provision of financial services through technological means carried out by the providers governed by it.This law is based on the principles of financial inclusion and innovation, promotion of competition, protection of the financial client, adequate protection of the data processed, preservation of financial integrity and stability and prevention of money laundering and financing of drug trafficking and terrorism, which must be observed by all subjects bound by it.The provision of the aforementioned services shall be subject to the supervision of the Financial Market Commission, which shall have all the powers conferred on it by Decree Law No. 3,538 of 1980 for the purpose of monitoring compliance with the provisions of this Law. In the enactment of the regulations that the Commission carries out for its implementation, it must observe the principles of proportionality based on risks, modularity in the services provided and technological neutrality.TITLE IITechnology-based financial servicesArticle 2.- Scope and supervision. This Title regulates the marketing of the following services:a) Collective financing platforms.(b) Alternative transaction systems.c) Credit and investment advice.(d) Custody of financial instruments.e) Routing of orders and intermediation of financial instruments.It will correspond to the Commission for the Financial Market to supervise the provision of the aforementioned services. To this end, it will have the powers conferred on it by this law and its organic law, including the power to adopt the preventive or corrective measures deemed necessary for the due protection of investors. For these purposes, the Commission may require the entities registered in the Register of Financial Service Providers, by means of a general rule, to send it the information that is necessary to monitor compliance with this law, in the periodicity, form and means established by said regulations.Article 3.- Definitions. For the purposes of this law, the following definitions shall apply:1. Credit advice: the provision of services of evaluations or recommendations to third parties regarding the capacity or probability of payment of natural and legal persons or entities, or their identity, for the purpose of obtaining, modifying or renegotiating a credit or financing.2. Investment advice: the provision of assessment or recommendation services to third parties regarding the advisability of making certain investments or transactions in publicly offered securities, financial instruments or investment projects. It does not include pension advice, pension advisory entities, social security financial advisors or financial advisory entities referred to in Decree Law No. 3,500 of 1980, or sales agents of insurance companies.3. Virtual financial assets or crypto-assets: digital representation of units of value, goods or services, with the exception of money, whether in national currency or foreign exchange, which can be transferred, stored or exchanged digitally.4. Commission: Commission for the Financial Market.5. Custody of financial instruments: holding in one's own name on behalf of, or in the name of, third parties, financial instruments, money or foreign currency arising from the flows or disposal of financial instruments held in custody, or which have been delivered by them for the acquisition of financial instruments or to secure transactions in such instruments.6. Order routing: service for channeling orders received from third parties for the purchase or sale of publicly offered securities or financial instruments to alternative transaction systems, securities intermediaries or commodity exchange brokers.7. Fintec: activities involving the use and application of innovation and technological developments for the design, offer and provision of financial products and services.8. Financial instrument: any security, contract, document or incorporeal good, designed, used or structured for the purpose of generating monetary income, or representing an insoluta debt or a virtual financial asset. For the purposes of this law, securities not registered in the Registry of Securities and Foreign Securities of Law No. 18,045, derivative contracts, contracts for difference, invoices, among others, regardless of whether their support is physical or electronic, shall be considered financial instruments. For the purposes of this law, public offering securities shall not be considered financial instruments; nor money or currencies, regardless of whether their support is physical or digital.9. Intermediation of financial instruments: service by virtue of which activities of buying or selling financial instruments for third parties are carried out, by any of the following ways: acquiring or disposing of financial instruments for own account, with the prior intention of selling or buying those same instruments to the third party, or acquiring or selling financial instruments in the name of or for such third party.10. Collective financing platform: physical or virtual place through which those who have investment projects or financing needs disseminate, communicate, offer or promote those projects or needs, or their characteristics, and contact or obtain contact information from those who have available resources or the intention to participate in those projects or needs or satisfy them; in order to facilitate the materialization of the financing operation.11. Investment project: that initiative whose purpose is the generation of interest, profits or pecuniary consideration for those who contribute to its financing.12. Registration: Registry of Financial Service Providers.13. Alternative transaction system: physical or virtual place that allows its participants to list, offer or trade financial instruments or publicly offered securities, and that is not authorized to act as a stock exchange in accordance with Law No. 18,045 or as a commodity exchange in accordance with Law No. 19,220.Article 4.- Normative attributions. The requirements and requirements established in this law may be exempted as determined by the Commission by means of a general rule, with respect to those entities that, due to the nature of the service provided, in terms of the number or type of participants, volume of operations or financial instruments negotiated, quoted or offered by certain entities, or other conditions of a similar nature,  do not compromise public faith or financial stability by not exceeding the limits established in the respective general rule or in accordance with the conditions established therein. Likewise, the Commission may establish less onerous forms of compliance with the requirements and requirements of this law, when the limits established in the respective general regulations are not exceeded. However, it may not be exempted from the registration obligation referred to in the following article.In the exercise of this attribution, the Commission may not exempt from compliance with the obligations regarding personal data established by this law.Article 5.- Regulated services and registration obligation. Only those who are registered in the Register of Financial Service Providers administered by the Commission may engage in the provision of collective financing platform services, alternative transaction system, intermediation of financial instruments, routing of orders, credit advice, investment advice and custody of financial instruments. The legal persons registered in said Registry may provide one or more of the services indicated above, subject to compliance with the requirements and requirements contemplated in this law for each service provided, and may also carry out those additional activities authorized by the Commission by means of a general rule. The entities registered in the Register must keep available to the public and through their website information regarding the type of activity or service that they are authorized to carry out by the Commission. International companies that provide the services described above must be domiciled in Chile for these purposes.The following entities audited by the Commission may provide the services mentioned in the previous paragraph, without the need to be registered in the Register of Financial Services Providers, and in accordance with the legal and regulatory framework that governs them in accordance with their line of business or object or the complementary regulations issued by the Commission for that purpose:1. In the case of the service of collective financing platforms and the operation of alternative transaction systems, securities intermediaries of Law No. 18.045, and stock exchanges and product brokers of Law No. 19.220.2. In the case of the order routing service, the general fund management companies of Law No. 20,712.3. In the case of the service of routing orders and intermediation of financial instruments, banks, securities intermediaries of Law No. 18.045 and product brokers of Law No. 19.220.4. In the case of the credit advisory service, the risk rating agencies of Law No. 18,045.5. In the case of investment advisory services, securities intermediaries under Law No. 18.045, general fund administrators and portfolio managers under Law No. 20.712, banks, insurance and reinsurance companies, and product brokers under Law No. 19.220.6. In the case of the custody service of financial instruments, securities intermediaries, product brokers, product exchanges of Law No. 19.220 and companies regulated by Law No. 18.876.7. In the case of intermediation and custody services for financial instruments, banks.8. Other institutions audited by the Commission, and entered in its registers, which the Commission authorises as a general rule.Article 6.- Registration requirements. To be registered in the Registry, an application must be sent to the Commission, in the form and by the means established by it by means of a general rule, indicating the applicant's intention to provide one or more of the services regulated by this Law, and shall accompany the background information indicated by the Commission through said regulations that prove the identity and legal capacity of the applicant.Legal persons that, in the ten years prior to the date of the application, have been sanctioned with the cancellation of registration for any of the serious infractions referred to in Article 14, administratively sanctioned for incurring in the conduct constituting an offense of Laws No. 18,045, shall not be registered.  Nos. 18.046, 19.220, 20.712, 20.720, Decree with Force of Law No. 3 of 1997 of the Ministry of Finance and Decree with Force of Law No. 251 of 1931 of the Ministry of Finance or for the offences referred to in Article 27 of Law No. 19.913 or Article 8 of Law No. 18.314. Nor shall legal persons whose main partners, directors or administrators have been sanctioned or convicted of such conduct in the same period, including those that serve as the basis for the crime of money laundering and which are indicated in Article 27(a) of Law No. 19,913, be registered. For these purposes, persons who have a participation equal to or greater than 10% of the capital or have the capacity to elect at least one member of the board of directors or administration will be considered the main partner.Only the registration will proceed and, therefore, only legal persons whose exclusive line is the provision of one or more of such services may provide the services regulated by this law, without prejudice to the provisions of the second paragraph of the previous article.The Commission shall decide on applications for entry in the Register within thirty working days from the date of the respective application. That period shall be suspended if the Commission, by means of digital communication, requests the applicant to correct the errors or omissions submitted by his application and shall only resume when that procedure has been completed. Once the defects have been corrected or the observations made have been addressed, if any, and the period referred to in this article has expired, the Commission shall decide on the application and, where appropriate, make the registration within three working days.Article 7.- Authorization for the provision of services. Prior to starting the provision of the services indicated below, the respective authorization of the Commission must be obtained. This obligation also applies to those who decide to provide any of these services in addition to those informed in their original registration application. For this purpose, the applicant must demonstrate, in the form, means and conditions established by the Commission by means of a general rule, that they comply with the following requirements:1. Crowdfunding platform:a) Have the necessary systems and procedures to comply with the information and dissemination obligations established by Article 8.b) Comply with the corporate governance and risk management requirements established in Article 12.2. Alternative transaction system:a) Have the necessary systems and procedures to comply with the information and dissemination obligations established by Article 8.b) Have the operational capacity to support the processing of transactions that are carried out through their systems or infrastructure.c) Comply with the corporate governance and risk management requirements established in Article 12.d) Have internal regulations aimed at ensuring the existence of a fair, competitive, orderly and transparent secondary market for financial instruments, in order to promote adequate price formation and allow the best execution of the orders of its users.3. Intermediation of financial instruments:a) Have the necessary systems and procedures to comply with the information and dissemination obligations established by Article 8.b) Have the operational capacity to support the processing of operations that are carried out through their systems or infrastructure.(c) Have the guarantees required by article 10.d) Have the assets required by article 11.e) Comply with the corporate governance and risk management requirements established in Article 12.4. Order routing:a) Have the necessary systems and procedures to comply with the information and dissemination obligations established by Article 8.b) Have the operational capacity to support the processing of operations that are carried out through their systems or infrastructure.(c) Have the guarantees required by article 10.d) Comply with corporate governance and risk management requirements established in Article 12.5. Investment Advice:a) Have the necessary systems and procedures to comply with the information and dissemination obligations established by Article 8.(b) Possess the qualifications and knowledge required by Article 9.c) Comply with the corporate governance and risk management requirements established in Article 12.6. Credit Counseling:a) Have the necessary systems and procedures to comply with the information and dissemination obligations established by Article 8.(b) Possess the qualifications and knowledge required by Article 9.c) Comply with the corporate governance and risk management requirements established in Article 12.7. Custody of financial instruments:a) Have the necessary systems and procedures in place to comply with the reporting obligations established by Article 8.b) Have the operational capacity to support the processing of operations carried out through their systems or infrastructure.(c) Have the guarantees required by article 10.d) Have the assets required by article 11.e) Comply with the corporate governance and risk management requirements established in Article 12.The Commission shall have a maximum period of six months to grant or reject the authorization referred to in this Article, counted from the application submitted for that purpose by the entity registered in the Registry. That period shall be suspended if the Commission, by means of digital communication, requests the applicant to correct the errors or omissions submitted by his application and shall only resume when that procedure has been completed.In order for an entity registered in the Register of Financial Service Providers to simultaneously provide two or more of the services indicated in this article, it must prove that it complies with each and every one of the requirements applicable to each of the services prior to starting the provision of each of them,  without understanding for that reason, the need to cumulate compliance with the requirements of Articles 10 and 11.The Commission, at any time and by reasoned resolution, may suspend the authorization to carry out any of the activities regulated by this law, to that registered entity that does not comply with the requirements established for the exercise of the respective activity or as a preventive measure when necessary for the due protection of investors.  public faith or financial stability. The foregoing, without prejudice to the criminal and administrative sanctions that are applicable for non-compliance.Article 8.- Information obligations. The Commission shall establish, by means of a general rule, in accordance with the provisions of Article 4, the information to be provided to its clients or disseminated to the general public by those who are registered in the Register and carry out any of the following activities:1. Crowdfunding platform:a) The characteristics and conditions of investment projects or financing needs.b) Any conflicts of interest that the collective financing platform may have.2. Alternative transaction system:a) The quotations and operations that are carried out through its systems or infrastructure.b) The conditions of access and operation of such systems or infrastructure, and of settlement of the operations carried out in them.c) The interruptions or contingencies presented by their systems.3. Intermediation of financial instruments:a) The conditions of access and operation of its systems or infrastructure.b) Any conflicts of interest that may arise in the exercise of his duties.c) The interruptions or contingencies presented by their systems.d) The economic, financial and legal situation of the registered entity.4. Order routing:a) The conditions of access and operation of its systems or infrastructure.b) Any conflicts of interest that may arise in the exercise of his duties.c) The interruptions or contingencies presented by their systems.5. Investment Advice:a) Conflicts of interest that may arise in the exercise of its activity.(b) The variables, methods, criteria or guidelines that guide the recommendation process.c) The risks inherent in the recommended investment.6. Credit Counseling:a) Conflicts of interest that may arise in the exercise of its activity.(b) The variables, methods, criteria or general guidelines that guide the evaluation process.7. Custody of financial instruments:a) The conditions of security, access and operation of its systems or infrastructure.b) The interruptions or contingencies presented by their systems.c) The economic, financial and legal situation of the entity.The entities that provide the services regulated in article 2 must report annually to the Internal Revenue Service on the balances of the financial instruments defined in numeral 8 of article 3 that their clients keep in custody and of the transactions that they carried out through them with respect to said instruments, for the application of income tax,  Additional Tax, Value Added Tax and/or Stamp Tax, or other corresponding taxes, in the form and term determined by resolution.Article 9.- Suitability for the provision of services. Natural persons who perform functions for entities that provide investment advisory and credit advisory services, registered in the Registry of Financial Service Providers, as well as the systems that said entities use for the provision of their services, must comply with standards of objectivity, coherence and consistency between the elements used to make their recommendation or evaluation and the needs expressed by the clients they hire.  such services.The Commission, by means of a general rule, shall establish the circumstances that must be accredited to qualify that such persons and systems have the conditions referred to in the preceding paragraph, such as certification of knowledge or inviolability, among others.Article 10.- Guarantees. Once the turnover or number of clients that could be affected by the acts or omissions that the institutions may incur, as established by the Commission as a general rule, those who provide the services of intermediation of financial instruments, routing of orders or custody of financial instruments, must provide one or more guarantees,  as the case may be, to respond to the correct and full fulfillment of all the obligations arising from its activity and, especially, for the possible damages that may be caused to its clients by their actions or omissions in the provision of services. The aforementioned entities will be liable for slight fault in the provision of the aforementioned services.The guarantee must be constituted by means of a bank slip or insurance policy for the amount determined by the Commission, according to the parameters established by a general rule in consideration of the impact or potential damage that the entity may cause to its client in attention to the service or services provided, the quality of corporate governance and risk management of the entity.Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraphs, the Commission, by means of a general rule and in order to reconcile the protection of public trust and financial stability with the economic viability of the business models regulated by this article, may replace the aforementioned individual guarantee by a guarantee co-financed by more than one entity of those obliged to constitute it by this article,  which must be of a sufficient amount and of adequate characteristics to face the risks of all the entities that co-finance it.Article 11.- Minimum equity. Once the turnover established by the Commission as a general rule has been reached and which allows it to be reasonably presumed that the risks faced by the institution may compromise public trust or financial stability, the entities that provide the services of intermediation or custody of financial instruments must have permanent minimum assets,  equal to or greater than the greater between:(a) UF 5,000; orb) 3% of the assets weighted by financial and operational risks of the entity, calculated in accordance with the method established for this purpose by the Commission through a general rule. In the case of entities that present deficiencies in their risk management, this percentage may be increased to 6% by the Commission in response to the evaluation of the quality of risk management that it carries out.In the event that the minimum equity of the entity decreases to an amount lower than that established in this article, it must inform the Commission as soon as it becomes aware of it and submit within a period of five calendar days a regularization plan that must contain specific measures of the aforementioned deficit that allow it to remedy the situation in which it finds itself and ensure its normal operation,  This period may be extended by the Commission to a total of ten calendar days. As long as this situation continues, it must refrain from carrying out new operations that could deepen the equity deficit or deteriorate the financial situation of the entity.Likewise, in the event that the Commission becomes aware that an entity is in the cases indicated in the preceding paragraph or when it is foreseeable that it will incur a capital deficit imminently if market circumstances continue or in response to the actions of the entity itself, and this has not been communicated to it in a timely manner,  the Commission may require the entity to submit a regularization plan within the period indicated in the preceding paragraph. If the capital deficit is not corrected within six months of its occurrence, the entity must cease to provide the service of intermediation of financial instruments and custody of financial instruments, and submit for approval by the Commission a program of termination of operations and transfer of clients.Upon receipt of the program of termination of operations and transfer of clients referred to in the preceding paragraph, the Commission may appoint one or more auditors for the period determined by means of a reasoned resolution. The administration of the institution shall, in the performance of its functions, be subject to instructions from the financial controller or financial controllers appointed by the Commission. The auditor shall have all the powers of the ordinary course of business that the law and the bylaws indicate to the board of directors, or to whoever takes his place, and to the general manager. The appointment of financial controller shall be made by officials of the Commission or by duly qualified external professionals, subject to their meeting the requirements of suitability and technical capacity determined by the Commission by means of a general rule. In the latter case, the financial controller's services shall be remunerated from the Commission's annual budget.In lawsuits in which the responsibility of any of the entities registered in the Registry and that provide the services indicated in the first paragraph is pursued, or the forced execution of their obligations to third parties, it will not be possible, in any case, to seize, or decree prejudicial or precautionary measures or other limitations to the domain with respect to the financial instruments or monies that have been delivered to them in deposit or to honor the Payment instructions made.However, such measures may be ordered, in accordance with the general rules, in the case of personal obligations of the third parties who have delivered those financial instruments to it on deposit, but only in respect of those owned by the respective third party.Article 12.- Corporate governance and risk management. In order to protect the information and interests of its clients, and ensure its financial and operational continuity, those who are registered in the Registry must design, approve and implement policies, procedures and controls that reconcile their economic-financial viability with their ability to have suitable strategic responses for the risks inherent to their lines of business.It will correspond to the Commission to establish, by means of a general rule, the standards of corporate governance and risk management, including aspects of cybersecurity and information security, which will allow it to be presumed that those who are registered in the Registry comply with the provision indicated in the previous paragraph, without prejudice to the fact that it will correspond to each entity to adopt or adapt such standards according to its size.  volume and nature of its business, and risks.In the case of entities registered in the Registry that provide intermediation or custody services of financial instruments, the standards established by the Commission will be those against which it will evaluate the quality of the corporate governance and risk management of the entity for the purposes of determining the amount of the guarantee and minimum equity referred to in Articles 10 and 11.Article 13.- Cancellation of registration. The Commission may cancel the registration in the Register of any person who has been punished for the serious infringements referred to in Article 14, or who, while registered in the Register, have carried out activities other than those regulated by this Law or, being of the latter, who have not been authorized in accordance with the procedure established in Article 7. The sanctions of cancellation of the registration will be accessory to those that correspond to apply to the entity for the conducts that motivated said cancellation. Additionally, the Commission may cancel the registration of those who have not requested authorization to carry out any of the activities regulated by this law within a period of twelve months from the corresponding registration.The Commission will cancel the registration in the Register of all those who voluntarily request it or of those entities that become debtors in bankruptcy liquidation proceedings. In the event that the Commission has initiated an administrative sanctioning process against the applicant, its request for cancellation will be suspended until said process has been completed, or it will be left without effect, in case the registration is canceled as a sanction for the serious infractions indicated above.Article 14.- Serious infractions. For the purposes of Articles 6 and 13, the following shall be considered serious infringements:a) Provide the services regulated by this law, without being registered in the Registry or without having obtained authorization to provide the services in accordance with the requirements and conditions established for the provision of those services.b) Failure to comply, for reasons attributable to the administration of the entity, the regularization plan and the program of termination of operations and transfer of customers referred to in article 11 or violate the prohibition of carrying out activities indicated in said standard.(c) Not having provided the security required by article 10 or having provided it for less than the amount required.d) Present maliciously false, incomplete or misleading background information to the Commission regarding the economic, financial or legal situation of the entity.e) Deliver information that is maliciously false, incomplete or inductively misleading to clients or the general public regarding the matters indicated in article 8.f) Disseminate maliciously false, incomplete or misleading inductive information regarding companies, projects or people whose financing needs are being or will be disseminated on a collective financing platform.g) Disseminate maliciously false information regarding financial instruments traded in alternative transaction systems, or the issuers thereof, with the purpose of altering the economic valuation that investors have of those instruments.h) Improperly use for their own benefit or that of third parties the financial instruments, currencies or monies held in custody on behalf of clients.i) Disseminate maliciously false or tendentious information for the provision of investment advisory services or credit advice, with the aim of misleading, even when it does not obtain advantages for itself or third parties.j) Engaging in price manipulation behaviors with respect to financial instruments, understood as the action that is carried out in order to stabilize, fix or artificially vary the prices of financial instruments, and that is not framed within the behaviors authorized by the Commission through a general rule.(k) Making fictitious quotations or transactions in respect of any financial instrument or effecting transactions or inducing or attempting to induce the purchase or sale of financial instruments, by means of any deceptive or fraudulent act, practice, mechanism or artifice.l) Maliciously providing false records or knowingly certifying false facts to the Commission, alternative transaction systems or the general public, for the purposes of the provisions of this law.Article 15.- Aggravating circumstances. The fact of committing them while subject to the supervision of the Commission and on the occasion of the provision of the services regulated in this Law shall be considered as an aggravating circumstance in the offences referred to in articles 467 to 473 of the Criminal Code.The penalty shall be increased by one degree when any of the acts described in the preceding paragraph are committed by the person who pretends to be registered in the Registry or supervised by the Commission.Anyone who commits any of the acts provided for in Law No. 21,459 against a service provider regulated in this Law shall be subject to the penalty indicated therein increased by one degree.TITLE IIIFrom the Open Finance SystemArticle 16.- Objectives and Principles of the Open Finance System. With the aim of promoting competition, innovation and inclusion in the financial system, this title establishes the basic rules and principles for the implementation of an open finance system, hereinafter, "Open Finance System" or "System", which allows the exchange between different information service providers of financial clients who have expressly consented to it and other types of data indicated in the following article,  through remote and automated access interfaces that allow direct interconnection and communication between the institutions participating in the System, under adequate security standards and subject to compliance with the requirements and conditions established in this law and the regulations issued by the Commission, in the matters indicated for this purpose.The Open Finance System will be applicable to the financial institutions, products and services, types of data and services indicated in the following articles and in the terms and conditions determined by the regulations issued for that purpose by the Commission.In fulfilling their duties and obligations, institutions participating in the Open Finance System shall observe the principles of proportionality, quality, transparency and customer information, data security and privacy, non-discriminatory treatment and interoperability between participating institutions.Article 17.- Perimeter and scope of the Open Finance System. The institutions participating in the Open Finance System shall be those that qualify as information provider institutions, information-based service providers, account provider institutions and payment initiation service providers, as indicated in Articles 18, 19 and 20.Such institutions shall adopt the necessary measures to allow the consultation, access, delivery and exchange of information, as appropriate, regarding the types of data, products and financial services relating to financial customers, whether natural or legal persons, who have contracted financial products or services or carried out financial operations with them, hereinafter, "Clients" or "Client",  in an expeditious and secure manner and under the conditions, deadlines and according to the specifications defined by the Commission by means of a general rule.The Open Finance System shall comprise the following:1. Information on general terms and conditions of the financial products and services they offer to the public and customer service channels provided by the information institutions referred to in Article 18. This information must be kept available to the public through a public access interface that must be kept available by the Information Providing Institutions and in open data format.2. Identification and registration information of the Clients and their representatives collected by the institutions providing information during the process of enrolling the Client, contracting products and services or executing operations, or to comply with regulatory requirements of due knowledge of the Client. This information may only be communicated in accordance with the authorization granted by the Client in accordance with the provisions of article 23.3. Information on the commercial conditions contracted and the use or history of transactions made by the Clients with respect to the financial products and services they maintain contracted with information providing institutions, as applicable, including: a) current accounts and their associated credit lines, demand accounts, funds provision accounts and savings accounts; (b) credit cards, with their respective associated credit lines; (c) money credit operations; (d) insurance policies; (e) savings or investment instruments; (f) card operation services and similar means of payment; and (g) other financial products or services as defined by the Commission as a general rule. This information may only be communicated in accordance with the authorization granted by the Client in accordance with the provisions of article 23. The information and history of transactions carried out may not be older than five years.4. Communications between financial service providers regulated in Law No. 21,236, for the purposes of the financial portability process established in said legislation, as determined by the regulations of that law.5. Data or information necessary for the provision of payment initiation services, in accordance with the provisions of article 20 and subject to prior authorization granted by the Customer in accordance with the provisions of article 23.6. Other data or information relating to financial products or services or initiation of other types of transactions that the Commission may have by means of a general rule, subject to the prior authorization granted by the Client.Article 18.- Institutions providing information. For the purposes indicated in the previous article, banks and issuers of credit cards, payment cards with provision of funds or any other system similar to the aforementioned means of payment that are authorized by the Commission must participate in the Open Finance System as institutions providing information.  as well as those institutions supervised by the Commission that it determines by means of a general rule, hereinafter, the "Information Provider Institutions". The participation of the Institutions Providing Information in the Open Finance System entails the obligation to give access and deliver the information that according to this law is requested by Institutions Providing Services Based on Information, under the terms and conditions established therein.To this end, the Commission will extend the obligation to participate in the Open Finance System to the institutions indicated below, and may establish differentiated rules for entities according to their relevance in each market, in terms of market share, number of Clients, availability of Customer data according to the categories indicated in the previous article or other objective criteria:(a) Payment card operators authorised by the Commission.(b) Savings and credit cooperatives supervised by the Commission, governed by the General Law on Cooperatives, the consolidated, agreed and systematized text of which was established by Decree with force of law No. 5 of 2003 of the Ministry of the Economy, Development and Reconstruction.(c) Administering agents of endorsable mutual mortgages and insurance companies regulated under Decree with force of law No. 251 of 1931 of the Ministry of Finance on insurance companies, public limited companies and stock exchanges.d) Institutions that place funds through money credit operations in a massive manner, in accordance with the provisions of Article 31 of Law No. 18,010.e) General fund administrators and portfolio managers regulated in accordance with Law No. 20,712, on the administration of third-party funds.f) Stockbrokers regulated by Law No. 18,045 on the Securities Market.(g) Family allowance compensation funds regulated by Law No. 18,833.h) Entities registered in the Register of Financial Service Providers kept by the Commission in accordance with this law.i) Other financial institutions supervised by the Commission, as determined by the Commission by means of a general rule.The Commission shall determine, as a general rule, the type of information to be communicated by the Institutions Providing Information through the Open Finance System as indicated in the preceding article.Article 19.- Institutions Providing Services Based on Information. They may participate in the Open Finance System to consult, access and receive data for the purpose of providing services to Clients, those service providers enabled by financial information that voluntarily register for these purposes in the Registry of Service Providers based on public information that the Commission will keep, hereinafter,  the "Information Based Service Providers". Entities that qualify as Information Providers indicated in the previous article and entities registered in the Register of Financial Service Providers maintained by the Commission may participate voluntarily as the latter, without the need for new registration, but subject to compliance with the requirements applicable to the registered entities.The Commission shall determine, by means of a general rule, the requirements and background information that must be accompanied by the aforementioned providers in order to register in the Register of Information-Based Service Providers. They must accredit, for such purposes, compliance with the technical and information security requirements established in articles 21 and 22, which may establish differentiated requirements in response to the type of data to which the Information-based Service Providers may access. The Commission shall decide on applications for entry in the abovementioned Register within six months of the date of the respective application. That period shall be suspended if the Commission, by means of digital communication, requests the applicant to remedy the technical and information security deficiencies that have been detected and shall only resume when that procedure has been completed. Once the aforementioned deficiencies have been corrected and the period referred to in this article has expired, the Commission shall decide on the application and, where appropriate, make the registration within three working days.The Commission, at any time and by reasoned resolution, may suspend the authorization to make information inquiries under the Open Finance System to those Service Providers based on Information that have ceased to comply with the requirements established by this law or as a preventive measure when necessary for the due protection of Clients. The foregoing, without prejudice to the criminal and administrative sanctions that are applicable for non-compliance.While they remain registered in the aforementioned Registry, Information-Based Service Providers may access the interfaces regulated in Article 21 that enable the Information Provider Institutions to formulate information queries. The Information Providing Institutions must communicate the information requested by the Information Based Services Provider, which must have the consent granted by the respective Client under the terms of article 23, without it being necessary to have a contractual relationship between both institutions.Those who have committed very serious and repeated infringements in a period of twenty-four months to the legal obligations regarding the protection of personal data may not register in the Register of Information-based Service Providers or voluntarily participate as Information-based Service Providers.Article 20.- Payment initiation service providers. Payment Initiation Service Providers may participate in the Open Finance System as Information-Based Service Providers. Such entities shall be understood as those entities that provide services to Clients who are holders of current accounts, sight accounts or funds provision accounts, according to which they can instruct, on behalf of the Client and before the bank or financial institution providing the respective account, hereinafter, "Account Provider Institutions", the execution of payment orders or electronic transfers of funds,  including predefined recurring payments in favor of the third beneficiaries that the clients indicate, charged to their respective accounts and means of payment.In order to act as Payment Initiation Service Providers, entities must be registered in the public Register of Payment Initiation Service Providers, which will be kept by the Commission, which will determine by means of a general rule the background that must accompany for such purposes, the risk management and control requirements,  guarantees, obligations of information to Clients and other conditions that must be accredited for the provision of these services and interconnection with the institutions providing the accounts or means of payment referred to above. The Commission shall decide on the application for registration within six months of the date of the respective application. That period shall be suspended if the Commission, by means of a communication based on digital form, requests the applicant to correct the errors or omissions to submit his application and shall only resume when that procedure has been completed.However, the Commission shall be empowered to issue differentiated rules to Payment Initiation Service Providers regarding compliance with any of the requirements or requirements established in this law, taking into account the nature and volume of operations carried out by payment initiation service providers and risks assumed by the audited institutions for these concepts.  among other circumstances of an objective nature that must be considered for this purpose in the general rule issued for that purpose.The Payment Initiation Service Providers may not access or hold, at any time, the monies of the Clients of the Account Provider Institutions associated with the payment orders instructed, nor may they access or maintain information of the Clients for purposes other than the provision of the service regulated in this article. Exceptionally, the Payment Initiation Service Providers may contemplate in their operating model the possibility of accessing and maintaining on a temporary basis the monies of the aforementioned Clients, subject to compliance with the rules established by the Central Bank of Chile to safeguard the normal functioning of the payments in which they intervene, which will include solvency requirements,  liquidity, maximum payment term and risk management, among other requirements that the Bank determines for this purpose. In any case, the maximum term of payment to the third beneficiaries of payment orders or electronic transfers may not exceed seventy-two hours.The execution of the payment order communicated by the payment initiation service provider, with the prior consent of the Client, shall be executed by the Account Provider Institution without the need for a prior contractual relationship with said provider and without any discrimination with respect to payment orders transmitted directly by the client. The foregoing, without prejudice to the obligations of information to the Client regarding the execution of the aforementioned payment order.Similarly, the execution of said order may not give rise to the collection of commissions or additional charges by the institution providing the account to the Client holding it, with respect to what has already been agreed for the use of the respective account or means of payment or the realization of transfers charged to it. Nor can charges be made by the institution providing the account to the payment initiation service provider.For the purposes of the provisions of Law No. 20,009, it shall be understood that Payment Initiation Service Providers provide a service associated with electronic transactions.Notwithstanding the provisions of the first paragraph, Payment Initiation Service Providers that have committed very serious and repeated infractions in a period of twenty-four months to the legal obligations regarding the protection of personal data may not participate in the Open Finance System as Institutions Providing Services based on Information.Article 21.- Means of delivery and exchange of information. The delivery and exchange of information referred to in this law by the Information Provider Institutions, Information-Based Service Providers, Account Provider Institutions and Payment Initiation Service Providers participating in the Open Finance System must be carried out through one or more interfaces, remote and automated access that must be kept available by the participants of the Open Finance System,  the minimum standards of which shall be determined by the Commission by means of a general rule.Said regulations shall establish the requirements and conditions necessary for the design, development and security mechanisms of these interfaces for accessing, sending or obtaining data and information in a standardized manner, and shall ensure interoperability between participating institutions and operational continuity through an alternative information exchange mechanism in the event that the respective interface or interfaces are disabled.  as well as any other requirement that the Commission determines as necessary for the safe and optimal functioning of the system. The Commission may lay down differentiated requirements taking into account the type of data or information to be transmitted through the interface.Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a request for the exchange of information, the parties must record at least the individualization of the applicant, the reason and purpose of the request, the type of data required and the date of the exchange.Article 22.- Information security standards. Information Provider Institutions, Information-Based Service Providers, Account Provider Institutions and Payment Initiation Service Providers participating in the Open Finance System shall adopt the necessary measures to comply with the minimum standards of information security, cybersecurity and risk management and internal control policies established by the Commission by general rule,  in order to safeguard the confidentiality, integrity and availability of data and information, and prevent risks to the information systems that process them, in order to prevent unauthorized disclosure and / or modification of information, and unauthorized interruptions of technological systems. For this purpose, they must take into consideration the risk inherent in each type of information, as well as the quality of sensitive data in accordance with the provisions of Law No. 19,628. The Commission may establish differentiated requirements depending on the risk associated with the type of financial products or services or type of data or information to which Information-Based Service Providers and Payment Initiation Service Providers shall have access, as appropriate.In the event of violations of the security measures indicated in the previous paragraph, the institutions participating in the Open Finance System must report security incidents to the Commission without delay, by the means and under the terms and conditions determined by the Commission by general rule, and shall adopt the corresponding risk mitigation measures.Article 23.- Requirements of consent and authentication. Information-Based Service Providers and Payment Initiation Service Providers, if any, shall adopt Customer authentication mechanisms and obtain Customer's prior and explicit consent to make information inquiries or initiate payments on their behalf through the Open Finance System, as applicable, through expeditious and secure electronic or digital means or channels.To consult financial information to Information Providing Institutions, in order to provide services to clients based on such financial information, the client's consent must be expressed in a free, informed, express and specific manner regarding the type of financial information, the purpose and the maximum period of validity of that authorization, and will identify the Information Based Service Provider.In the case of a payment initiation, the data necessary for the instruction of the payment order in accordance with article 20 must be indicated, including details of the respective account or means of payment, the value of the transaction, date of payment, identification of the respective Payment Initiation Service Provider and third party beneficiary of the payment. Consent may be granted only once in the case of a recurring payment predefined by the Customer.The latter may revoke the consent given at any time, and the respective Information-Based Service Provider or Payment Initiation Service Provider shall be prohibited from continuing to use the consent for further information inquiries or for the initiation of new payment orders.The Commission, by means of a general rule, will establish the way in which the express consent of the Clients will be considered granted for all legal purposes and the way in which the Client may revoke said consent. The Commission shall also establish the information that Information-Based Service Providers and Payment Initiation Service Providers shall provide to Customers regarding requests for information or initiation of payments executed pursuant to the authorizations granted.The Information Provider Institutions and Account Provider Institutions, where appropriate, shall adopt mechanisms for the authentication of Customers who have given their consent to the Information-based Service Providers or the Payment Initiation Service Providers, as the case may be. The means of authentication and confirmation of Clients referred to above must comply with the minimum standards defined by the Commission by general rule, which may consider differentiated rules, including reinforced authentication mechanisms, considering the risk and type of data or services involved. The Customer authentication mechanisms for these purposes must be compatible with the methods already available in the Information Providing Institutions and Account Provider Institutions for access to their electronic channels.The Information Provider Institutions must implement mechanisms for the authentication of Information-based Service Providers and Payment Initiation Service Providers, in order to verify that they are registered in the Registries kept by the Commission, in accordance with the standards that it defines by general norm.Article 24.- Responsibility of institutions participating in the Open Finance System. Participating Information Provider Institutions, Account Provider Institutions, Information-Based Service Providers and Payment Initiation Service Providers shall be responsible for safeguarding the integrity, availability, security and confidentiality of the data involved in each transaction and the adequate privacy of Customer information. The foregoing, without prejudice to compliance with the other legal and regulatory requirements that are applicable to them in relation to the processing of data that each of them carries out and the provisions of Law No. 19,628, on the protection of privacy.The access, delivery and exchange of information between institutions participating in the Open Finance System in compliance with the applicable provisions of this law and in accordance with the consent granted by the Client, will not be understood as a violation of the obligations of confidentiality, confidentiality and secrecy imposed on the Information Provider Institutions or Account Provider Institutions in accordance with applicable laws or regulations.Information-based Service Providers and Payment Initiation Service Providers shall implement the necessary measures to ensure security in the data processing they carry out in the context of consultations for access to financial information and initiation of payments, respectively, with special safeguards regarding the purposes for which it was authorized by the Client,  without being able to use, store or access Customer data not included within the aforementioned authorization or consent or in case such consent has been revoked by the Customer or its validity period has expired. Likewise, they must adopt the necessary measures and respond to the Clients in case of alteration, destruction, loss, treatment or unauthorized communication or access to Clients' data.Information-based Service Providers and Payment Initiation Service Providers shall discontinue access to information and the placing of new payment orders as soon as the Customer withdraws its consent or its validity period expires or in case there are vulnerabilities that put Customers' information at risk. In the latter case, they must communicate this situation to the Client, the Commission and the respective Information Provider Institution, in the terms that the Commission defines by means of a general rule.The participating institutions will be responsible for answering the queries and claims of the Clients regarding the data and services exchanged through the Open Finance System in which they have participated, for which they must have mechanisms for customer service, without prejudice to the responsibilities that correspond to them in accordance with the provisions of this law or other laws that are applicable to them according to the general legal system.Article 25.- Distribution of costs for information consultations in the Open Finance System. Information Provider Institutions may not charge Information-Based Service Providers for the communication of Customer data information requested through the interfaces defined for the Open Finance System, with the exception of reimbursement of direct incremental costs incurred to meet the increase in requests for information received to the extent that they exceed the defined request volume threshold. by the Commission.The Commission shall establish, by means of a general rule, the parameters for the determination of reimbursable costs and the thresholds of volume of requests for information above which reimbursement shall correspond, taking into account the volume and type of data to be delivered and the incremental operating costs of the interfaces.The direct incremental costs that the Information Provider Institution requests to reimburse must be set on the basis of public, objective, equitable and non-discriminatory conditions between participating institutions. In the event of non-compliance by an Information-Based Service Provider in the payment of the aforementioned reimbursable costs, the Information Provider Institution shall continue to respond to information inquiries that do not exceed the aforementioned thresholds, unless there are payment balances due for a period exceeding sixty calendar days.The reimbursement of costs by the participating institutions with respect to the development of the interface or information exchange mechanism defined for the implementation of the Open Finance System in accordance with Article 21 shall not apply.Access to Customer data information requested from Information Provider Institutions through the interfaces defined for the Open Finance System may not result in the collection of commissions or additional charges to Clients.Article 26.- Safeguards to guarantee interoperability and non-discriminatory treatment between participating institutions. The Institutions Providing Information shall comply with the obligations contained in the preceding articles, and shall adopt the necessary measures to guarantee non-discriminatory treatment and interoperability with other institutions participating in the Open Finance System.The Information Provider Institutions and Account Provider Institutions may not establish restrictions, limitations or obstacles for the exchange of information or access by Information Based Service Providers or authorized Payment Initiation Service Providers, in terms of priority access, timeliness and quality of information, requests for authorizations to Customers or additional validations to the requirements contemplated in the  Previous articles. Nor may they give any discriminatory treatment to requests for access to information or payment initiation instructions received through said interface, with respect to those transactions made directly by the Client through their usual service channels.Article 27.- Supervisory and supervisory powers of the Commission. The Commission shall be responsible for issuing the regulations and instructions necessary for the proper implementation and operation of the Open Finance System, as well as supervising compliance with the obligations incumbent on Information Providing Institutions, Account Provider Institutions, Information-based Service Providers and Payment Initiation Service Providers. To this end, it shall have the powers conferred on it by this law and its organic law. To that end, the Commission shall observe the principles of risk-based proportionality, technological neutrality and interoperability between participating institutions. The foregoing, without prejudice to the duties and obligations of the participating institutions under the general law, including Law No. 19,496, which establishes rules on the protection of consumer rights and Law No. 19,628, on the protection of privacy.For the purposes of the issuance of the regulations governing the Open Finance System, the procedures for public consultation and regulatory impact assessment contemplated in Article 20 number 3 of Decree Law No. 3,538 of 1980 must be carried out and a report from the National Economic Prosecutor's Office must be requested in accordance with the provisions of Article 37 bis of Law No. 19,880.Likewise, in order to ensure an adequate implementation of the Open Finance System, the Commission may order the carrying out of pilot tests of operation with the institutions that must participate or that express interest in participating in the Open Finance System, for the purpose of defining the technical and operational aspects of the regulations, particularly in areas related to the means of exchange of information and operation of the programming interfaces of  Applications and authentication mechanisms between participating institutions.The Commission shall have oversight powers over institutions participating in the Open Finance System. It may require the records, documents, data, reports and, in general, the information and background information it deems necessary to verify compliance with the applicable requirements under this law, as well as to monitor and evaluate the operation of the Open Finance System. It may also prepare statistical information it deems necessary, in the form and terms indicated by a general rule.To this end, the Commission may order the partial or total, temporary or definitive suspension of one or more participating institutions for the delivery or exchange of information and data that is carried out, when the requirements established in the law and / or regulations issued for this purpose are not complied with and it is necessary for the protection of the interests of the Clients or for the proper functioning of the Open Finance System.Institutions participating in the Open Finance System that commit violations of the provisions of this Law and regulations issued thereon or fail to comply with the instructions or orders legally issued by the Commission, may be sanctioned in accordance with the rules established in Title III of Decree Law No. 3,538 of 1980, without prejudice to the special sanctions contained therein or other legal bodies. These resolutions may be challenged in accordance with the provisions of Title V of the same Law.TITLE IVOther provisionsArticle 28.- Offer of financial products and services according to the profile. Financial service providers regulated by Title II, and banks, insurance companies, securities intermediaries, product exchange brokers, fund and individual portfolio managers regulated by Law No. 20,712, and savings and credit cooperatives supervised by the Commission, family allowance compensation funds regulated by Law No. 18,833,  They must adopt policies, procedures and controls aimed at preventing products from being offered that are not in accordance with the needs, expectations and willingness to risk that customers have previously communicated to them regarding the products they wish to purchase.For these purposes, entities may require customers to provide information on their knowledge and experience as an investor or financial client, their financial situation and investment, savings, financing or insurance objectives, in response to the type of service or financial product they wish to contract, and must inform them about the characteristics and conditions of these and the risks involved.In those cases in which a client decides to contract a service that in the opinion of the service provider is not in accordance with the needs, expectations or risks communicated by the client, the entity must adopt the necessary safeguards in order to prove to the Commission that this fact was warned to the client prior to contracting,  when the latter so requests in the audit of compliance with the provisions of this article.The information, propaganda or advertising that is delivered by any means regarding the offer of financial products or services may not contain statements, allusions or representations that may mislead, or that are misleading or may cause confusion to the public about the nature, prices, profitability or any other characteristic of such products or services or those relating to those who provide them.For purposes of monitoring the provisions of this article, the Commission shall have all the powers conferred upon it by its organic law.Article 29.- Conditions of access to bank accounts by audited financial institutions. Banks offering current account services shall establish the public, objective and non-discriminatory conditions under which they shall offer and give access to such services to financial service providers covered by Title II, issuers and operators of payment cards and other financial institutions subject to the supervision of the Commission as defined by the Commission as a general rule. Under the aforementioned conditions, the bank may deny the request to open an account or proceed to the suspension or closure of the current account contract, in which case it must communicate said decision as soon as possible, and for justified cause to the respective financial institution. Likewise, it must inform the reasons that motivate it in consideration of the specific risks of the applicant institution or its lack of adequacy to the general conditions referred to above.TITLE VModifications to other normative bodiesArticle 30.- Law No. 20,950, which authorizes the issuance and operation of means of payment with provision of funds by non-banking entities, shall be amended to read as follows:1. The following new second paragraph shall be inserted in Article 1, with the current second, third, fourth and fifth paragraphs becoming third, fourth, fifth and sixth paragraphs, respectively:"For all legal purposes, it shall be understood that the means of payment referred to in the preceding paragraph include digital, electronic or computer representations, registered through systems that use distributed or similar ledger technologies, of units whose value is directly determinable and backed by money, whether it is national or foreign currency,  or, documents containing obligations payable in any of these currencies, and subject to such representations and systems complying with the minimum standards and conditions in matters of security, reliability, acceptability, use, massiveness, among others, that the Central Bank of Chile establishes as a general rule.2. The first subparagraph of Article 5 shall be replaced by the following:"Article 5.- Non-bank issuers of means of payment with provision of funds shall be entitled to receive money from the public, which may only be used to make payments corresponding to the use of such means, to comply with transfers of funds instructed by the holder or by a third party specially authorized by him, to charge the commissions that proceed or to reimburse the resources received from the holder of the payment instrument."Article 31.- The first article of Law No. 18,840, constitutional organic law of the Central Bank of Chile, shall be amended to read as follows:1. The following final paragraph shall be incorporated into paragraph 8 of article 35:"The payment orders referred to in this paragraph include relapses in digital, electronic or computer representations, recorded through systems that use distributed ledger technologies or other analogous, of units whose value is directly determinable and supported by money, whether it is national or foreign currency, or,  of documents containing obligations payable in any of these currencies, and subject to such representations and systems complying with the minimum standards and conditions in matters of security, reliability, acceptability, use, massiveness, among others, that the Central Bank of Chile establishes as a general rule.2. The following shall be incorporated in the second paragraph of Article 39, after the point and apart, which becomes full stop:"Similarly, the concept of foreign currency or currency includes digital, electronic or computer representations, recorded through systems using distributed ledger or similar technologies, of units the value of which is directly determinable and supported by a certain foreign currency, one or more documents containing obligations payable in foreign currency, or a basket of foreign currencies,  and subject to such representations and systems complying with the minimum standards and conditions in matters of security, reliability, acceptability, use, massiveness, among others, that the Bank establishes as a general rule."Article 32.- Law No. 18,045 on the Securities Market shall be amended to read as follows:1. Article 4 shall be replaced by the following:"Article 4.- A public offering of securities is understood to be that addressed to the general public or to certain sectors or specific groups thereof.The Commission, by means of a general rule, may establish that certain types of securities offerings do not constitute public offerings, taking into account the number and type of investors to whom they are addressed, the means through which they are communicated or materialized and the amount of the securities offered.Likewise, the Commission may exempt certain persons, entities or public offers from compliance with any of the requirements of this law or define less burdensome requirements than those established by it, by means of a general rule and in consideration of the fact that due to their conditions or characteristics public faith will not be compromised.Issuers in liquidation may not make an offer of securities to the public except in the case of their own shares or in such other cases or circumstances as the Commission may establish as a general rule.";2. Articles 5 and 6 shall be replaced by the following:"Article 5.- The securities that are the subject of a public offer shall be registered in the Securities Registry.Article 6.- Securities may only be offered to the public when they are registered in the Securities Registry."3. Article 8b shall be replaced by the following:"Article 8 ter.- Those issuers of securities that comply with the characteristics or conditions established by the Commission by means of a general rule, either with respect to the issuer, the issue, the placement or the investor to whom the offer is addressed, among others, may benefit from the automatic registration modality established in this article. To this end, the issuer shall accompany its application for automatic registration, the risk classification or classifications referred to in Article 8a, the copy of the authentic deed required by Articles 104 or 137, depending on the type of instrument in question, and the rest of the documentation established by the Commission,  by means of a general rule, with respect to debt securities or line of debt securities and, where appropriate, the respective modifications.Shares, debt securities and other securities shall be registered in the Securities Registry by the sole ministry of the law, as of the business day following the issuance of the corresponding certificate by the Commission, upon payment by the applicant of the registration fees established in Article 33 of Decree Law No. 3,538.  of 1980, which establishes the Commission for the Financial Market, in cases where such payment has not been exempted by law."4. Article 10 shall be replaced by the following:"Article 10.- The entities whose securities are registered in the Securities Registry shall be subject to this law and its complementary rules and shall provide the information established by law to the Commission and the general public with the periodicity, publicity and in the manner determined by the Commission by general rule.Likewise, and without prejudice to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, said entities must disclose in a truthful, sufficient and timely manner, any fact or essential information regarding themselves and their businesses at the time it occurs or comes to their knowledge.The board of directors or administrators of each entity shall implement policies, procedures, systems and controls in order to ensure such disclosure and prevent the leakage of essential information until such disclosure has occurred.The Commission, by means of a general rule, shall establish the requirements and conditions that must be met by the policies, procedures, systems and controls referred to in the preceding paragraph.Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraph, with the approval of three-quarters of the directors in office, the character of reserved may be given to certain facts or antecedents that refer to negotiations still pending that, when known, may harm the corporate interest. In the case of issuers not managed by a board of directors or other collegiate body, the reserve decision must be taken by the unanimity of the administrators.The decisions and agreements referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be communicated to the Commission on the working day following their adoption by the technological means authorized by the Commission.Those who intentionally or culpably qualify or concur with their vote in favor of declaring as reserved a fact or antecedent, of those referred to in the third paragraph of this article, shall respond in the manner and terms established in article 55.5. Articles 23 to 31 shall be replaced by the following:"Article 23.- Any security registered in the Securities Registry may be traded on stock exchanges, which shall be obliged to accept them for listing and negotiation in their stock exchange systems to the extent that they comply with the rules issued in accordance with Article 44 letter e).The intermediation of shares of public limited companies may only be carried out on stock exchanges.Article 24.- Securities intermediaries are those who, in order to fulfill the orders of third parties:(a) Buy or sell publicly offered securities for their own account with the prior intention of selling or acquiring the same instruments to such third parties, orb) Buy or sell publicly offered securities in the name or on behalf of such third parties.Only legal persons that are registered in the Register of Stockbrokers and Securities Agents maintained by the Commission may act as intermediary of publicly offered securities. They shall have as their exclusive object that indicated in the preceding paragraph, and may carry out other activities authorized by the Commission by means of a general rule.Securities intermediaries may also act as brokers in the Commodity Exchanges governed by Law No. 19,220, which regulates the establishment of commodity exchanges, being considered as such for all purposes of that law.Article 25.- To be registered in the Register of Stockbrokers or Securities Agents, an application must be sent to the Commission, in the form and means established by it by means of a general rule, and accompany the background information that it indicates in said regulations that prove the identity and legal capacity of the applicant.Legal persons who, in the ten years prior to the date of the application, have been administratively sanctioned for engaging in the conduct constituting an offence under this Act or under Laws No. 18.046, 19.220, 20.712, 20.720 of Decree with Force of Law No. 3 of 1997 shall not be registered.  of the Ministry of Finance and Decree with force of law No. 251 of 1931 of the Ministry of Finance or who have been convicted of an offence deserving of an afflictive penalty. Nor will the registration of legal persons in which they act as directors or administrators who were sanctioned for such conduct in the same period.The Commission shall decide on applications for registration in the Register of Stockbrokers and Securities Dealers within thirty working days from the date of the respective application.The period referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be suspended if the Commission requests the applicant to amend his application, and shall only resume when it has been corrected. Once the defects have been corrected or the observations made, where appropriate, have been taken into account and the period referred to in this article has expired, the Commission shall decide on the application and, where appropriate, make the registration within the third working day.Banks which, in accordance with their authority, receive orders from their clients to buy or sell shares in open joint-stock companies shall execute such orders through a stockbroker.Banks will not be obliged to register in the Registry of Stockbrokers and Securities Agents to perform the intermediation functions in accordance with the powers conferred on them by the General Banking Law.However, they shall be subject to all other provisions of this Act in respect of their activities as such.Article 26.- Prior to starting the provision of the service of intermediation of publicly offered securities, those who are registered in the Registry must request authorization from the Commission. For this purpose, the applicant must demonstrate, in the form, means and conditions established by it by means of a general rule, that:a) It has the necessary systems and procedures to comply with the information and dissemination obligations established by this law.b) It has the operational capacity to support the processing of the operations that are carried out through its systems or infrastructure.(c) It has the suitability required by article 28.(d) It has the guarantees required by article 29.e) It has the conditions of indebtedness, liquidity and solvency established by article 30.f) It has the corporate governance and risk management system required by Article 31.The Commission shall have a maximum period of six months to grant or reject the authorization referred to in this Article, counted from the application submitted for that purpose by the entity registered in the Registry. That period shall be suspended if the Commission, by means of digital communication, requests the applicant to correct the errors or omissions submitted by his application and shall only resume when that procedure has been completed. Once the defects have been corrected or the observations made have been addressed, if any, and the period referred to in this article has expired, the Commission shall decide on the application and, where appropriate, make the registration within three working days.Article 27.- Securities intermediaries who are authorized to operate on a stock exchange are called stockbrokers, and those who do not have such authorization, securities dealers. Stockbrokers and securities dealers must include in their business name the expression "stockbroker" or "securities dealer", respectively.Article 28.- The persons who perform functions for securities intermediaries, as well as the systems they use, must guarantee their suitability for the proper performance of the activities they carry out and compliance with the obligations established by law.The Commission, by means of a general rule, shall establish the circumstances that will allow it to be presumed that such persons and systems have the conditions referred to in the previous paragraph, such as certification of knowledge or external certifications of inviolability of systems, among others.Article 29.- Once the turnover or number of clients that could be affected by the actions or omissions of the securities intermediary has been reached, as established by the Commission by general rule, those who are registered in the Registry must constitute a guarantee to respond to the correct and complete fulfillment of all the obligations arising from their activity and especially,  of the possible damages that they could cause to the clients in their actions. Securities intermediaries shall be liable for slight fault.The guarantee must be constituted by means of a bank slip or insurance policy, for the amount determined by the Commission, according to the parameters established by general rule, in consideration of the impact or potential damage that the entity may cause to its clients, the quality of the corporate governance and risk management of the entity, and that the resulting amount does not make its business model unviable.Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraphs, the Commission, in order to reconcile the protection of public faith and financial stability with the economic viability of the business models of securities intermediaries, may, by means of a general rule, replace the aforementioned individual guarantee with a co-financed one, which must be of a sufficient amount and adequate characteristics to face the risks of the entities that co-finance it.Article 30.- Once the turnover established by the Commission by general rule has been reached and that allows it to be reasonably presumed that the risks faced by the securities intermediary may compromise public faith and financial stability, those who are registered in the Registry shall:1. Maintain permanently a minimum equity equivalent to the greater of: a) 5,000 development units; or (b) 3 per cent of its assets weighted by financial and operational risks calculated in accordance with the method established by the Commission by means of a general rule. In the case of entities that present deficiencies in their risk management, this percentage may be increased to 6% by the Commission in response to the evaluation of the quality of risk management that it carries out.2. comply with the conditions of indebtedness and liquidity established by the Commission by means of a general rule. These regulations must indicate the method to be applied to comply with these conditions, which will be established on the basis of the evaluation of the quality of the risk management process carried out by the Commission on the institution.In the event that the minimum equity of the entity decreases to an amount lower than that established in this article or the entity ceases to comply with the liquidity and indebtedness conditions indicated in this article, it shall communicate that fact to the Commission as soon as it becomes aware of it, and must submit a regularization plan within a period of five calendar days.  which may be extended by the Commission up to a total of ten calendar days. This plan must contain specific measures on the aforementioned deficit that will allow it to remedy the situation in which it finds itself and ensure its normal functioning. As long as it is maintained, it must refrain from carrying out new operations that deteriorate its financial situation.Likewise, in the event that the Commission becomes aware that an entity is in the cases indicated in the preceding paragraph or when it is foreseeable that it will incur a capital deficit imminently if market circumstances continue or in response to the actions of the entity itself, and this has not been communicated to it in a timely manner,  the Commission may require the institution to submit a regularisation plan within the same period as indicated above. If the deficit is not corrected within a period of six months from the date on which it occurred, the entity must stop providing the service of intermediation and custody of securities, and submit for approval by the Commission a program of termination of operations and transfer of customers.From the date of receipt of the program referred to in the preceding paragraph, the Commission may appoint a provisional auditor or administrator, for the period determined by reasoned resolution. The administration of the institution shall, in the performance of its functions, be subject to instructions from the financial controller or financial controllers appointed by the Commission. The auditor shall have all the powers of the ordinary course of business that the law and the bylaws indicate to the board of directors, or to whoever takes his place, and to the general manager. The Financial Controller shall be appointed by Commission officials or duly qualified external professionals, subject to their meeting the requirements of suitability and technical capacity determined by the Commission by general rule. In the latter case, the financial controller's services shall be remunerated from the Commission's annual budget.In lawsuits in which the liability of any of the intermediaries registered in the Registry is pursued, or the forced execution of their obligations to third parties, it will not be possible, in any case, to seize, or decree prejudicial or precautionary measures or other limitations to the domain with respect to the instruments or monies that have been delivered to them in deposit or to honor the payment instructions made.However, such measures may be ordered, in accordance with the general rules, in the case of personal obligations of the third parties who have delivered those instruments in deposit, but only in respect of those owned by the respective third party.Article 31.- In order to safeguard the information and interests of its clients, and ensure its financial and operational continuity, those who are registered in the Registry must design, approve and implement policies, procedures and controls that reconcile their economic-financial viability with their ability to have suitable strategic responses for the risks inherent to their lines of business.It will correspond to the Commission to establish, by means of a general rule, the standards of corporate governance and risk management that will allow to presume that those who are registered in the Registry comply with the provision indicated in the previous paragraph, without prejudice that it will correspond to each entity to adopt or adapt such standards according to its size, volume and nature of its business.  and risks.The standards established by the Commission shall be those against which it shall evaluate the quality of the corporate governance and risk management of the entity for the purposes of determining the amount of the guarantee and conditions of liquidity, indebtedness and solvency required by this law."6. Article 36, second paragraph (a), shall be replaced by the following:"a) Fail to comply with any of the requirements required by law for its operation. The Commission, in qualified cases, may grant the interested party a period of time to remedy the situation, which in no case may exceed one hundred and twenty working days."7. Articles 38 and 39 shall be replaced by the following:"Article 38.- Stock exchanges are those entities that provide stockbrokers with a physical or virtual place where they can list, offer or trade securities, as well as for other activities that they may carry out in accordance with the law.Article 39.- Stock exchanges, when regulating their stock market activity, shall ensure the existence of a secondary market for securities with an equitable, competitive, orderly and transparent public offering.This regulation should also promote adequate price formation and allow the best execution of client orders.The regulations referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be previously approved by the Commission, which shall have the power to reject, modify or delete them, by means of a well-founded resolution."8. Replace paragraphs 1 to 7 of article 40 with the following, changing the current numeral 8 to numeral 9 and so on:"1. They must be incorporated as a special public limited company.2. They must include in their corporate name the expression "stock exchange".3. They shall have as their sole object the object specified in Article 38 and may also carry out such activities as the Commission authorises or requires them to do in accordance with their powers.4. They must have a minimum equity calculated in the manner determined by the Commission by means of a general rule, which will correspond to the greater of the equivalent of 5,000 promotion units and the percentage of assets weighted by financial and operational risks determined by the Commission by means of a general rule, where it will indicate its method of calculation,  and operate with a minimum of 10 brokers after three years of operation. If during the term of the company the amount of its assets is reduced to figures lower than those indicated above, the stock exchange will have a period of three months to correct the deficits produced. If this period expires without this having occurred, its authorization of existence may be revoked by the Superintendence, unless this body authorizes the reduction of its share capital.5. Comply with the corporate governance and risk management requirements determined by the Commission through a general rule and have the systems and infrastructure that allow them to comply with the obligations established by this law.6. No broker, individually or jointly with related persons, may own, directly or indirectly, more than 10% of the ownership of a stock exchange.The shares of the stock exchanges may be traded in the same issuing stock exchange center or in others.A broker may operate on more than one exchange, either as a shareholder or by entering into a contract to operate on it.7. Any person accepted as a broker of a stock exchange, in which it is required to acquire a share to trade, may do so through private transactions or through the mechanism of making a firm offer for a period of up to sixty days and for a value not less than the greater of the average price of stock transactions of the last year and the updated book value to date. of the offer. If during that period it has not had a sale offer, it may require the stock exchange to issue a payment share at the highest value of those previously indicated.8. They must keep the securities of third parties that they hold in custody, segregated in special accounts in banks or in companies regulated by Law No. 18,876, which establishes the legal framework for the constitution and operation of private entities of deposit and custody of securities.9. Articles 41 and 42 shall be replaced by the following:"Article 41.- The establishment and operation of a stock exchange shall require the prior authorization of the Commission.Article 42.- Every stock exchange, in order to start its operations, must prove to the satisfaction of the Commission that it has an infrastructure, policies, procedures and controls that guarantee its full compliance with the obligations established by law and that it adequately manages its risks so that its services do not suffer interruptions due to the materialization of those or that,  In the event of unforeseeable circumstances, any interruptions that occur will be corrected in a timely manner.The manner in which compliance with these conditions shall be established by the Commission by means of a general rule.The Commission shall have a period of three months in which to grant or refuse the authorisation referred to in Article 41, by means of a reasoned decision, counted from the date on which such authorisation is requested.Once the conditions have been met, it shall proceed without further formalities to grant the authorisation."10. Add the following new Title XXIX:"Title XXIXThe simplified regime for debt securitiesArticle 250.- Debt securities regulated by this Title, which comply with the characteristics or conditions established by the Commission by means of a general rule, either with respect to the issuer, amount of the issue, placement or the investor to whom the offer is addressed, among others, may benefit from the modality of simplified regime established by this Title. For the registration of these debt securities, no fee shall be collected by the Commission.Article 251.- Before registering the securities referred to in the preceding article, the issuer shall prove its identity and legal capacity, in the form and means established by the Commission by means of a general rule. The latter must rule on the matter within a maximum period of fifteen working days from the respective request. Once this condition has been accredited, the Commission will proceed to register the titles and apply the rules of this Title in respect of them, without further formality.Article 252.- As long as the rights of the registered instrument have not been totally extinguished, the issuers shall provide such information on their financial, economic and legal situation as the Commission has established by means of a general rule. Once the rights of the registered instruments have been extinguished, their registration in the Registry will be canceled by the sole ministry of the law.Article 253.- Regardless of whether the interest paid by the registered instruments is determined as a proportion or fraction of the net profits of the debtor's fiscal year, they shall be considered debt securities for all legal purposes and income as interest.Article 254.- The instruments registered under the provisions of this Title represented by the certificate referred to in this Article shall be enforceable for the purposes of the enforceable judicial procedure that claims compliance.The delay or simple delay will entitle any affected beneficiary to demand the recovery of outstanding obligations in his favor, without requiring the prior agreement of the other creditors.The certification issued by the Commission as to the fact that the instrument is registered shall provide full proof as to the existence of the obligation.In the event that the instrument has been issued in a dematerialized manner through the book-entry system referred to in Law No. 18,876 or its custody is maintained in companies regulated by that law, the certificate issued by the custody company shall provide full proof of the status of creditor beneficiary of the obligation and the amount owed to it.Article 33.- Law No. 18,046 on Corporations shall be amended to read as follows:1. Article 2 shall be replaced by the following:"Article 2.- Corporations may be of three kinds: open, special or closed.Open public limited companies are those that register their shares in the Securities Registry. Companies that for twelve consecutive months have had more than 2,000 shareholders registered in the shareholders' register or the higher number established by the Commission by means of a general rule will be obliged to register their shares in the Securities Registry, provided that that number does not compromise public faith, taking into account the type of shareholder.  nature of the company or similar circumstances.Special corporations are those indicated in Title XIII.Closed corporations are those that do not qualify as open or special.Open public limited companies and special public limited companies shall be subject to the supervision of the Commission for the Financial Market, hereinafter referred to as the Commission. In the latter case, they shall also be subject to the former, as appropriate, when issuing securities.Open public limited companies may only request the cancellation of their shares in the Securities Registry by agreement of two thirds of the shares with voting rights at an extraordinary meeting of shareholders. If the cancellation request is approved, the absent or dissenting shareholder will have the right to withdrawal. In the event that the cancellation of the registration has been the result of an administrative sanctioning process of the Commission, the company will continue to have the quality of public limited company open for the purposes of this law, as long as the extraordinary meeting of shareholders does not agree otherwise for two thirds of the shares with voting rights,  in which case, the absent or dissenting shareholder shall have the right to withdrawal."2. The first paragraph of Article 126 shall be replaced by the following:"Article 126.- The companies that the law expressly submits to the procedures indicated below, are formed, exist and prove by public deed, obtaining a resolution of the Commission authorizing their existence and registration and publication of the special certificate granted by said Commission."3. In Article 127, the following new final paragraph shall be added:"The approval of the Commission shall not be necessary in the case of amendments to the statutes that are only intended to increase the capital of the company, when such increase is paid in legal tender or in those currencies that comply with the conditions established by the Commission by regulation."Article 34.- The Commercial Code shall be amended as follows:1. Article 430 shall be replaced by the following:"Article 430.- A joint stock company that for twelve consecutive months fulfills the conditions that oblige a closed corporation to register its shares in the Securities Registry of Law No. 18,045, shall be transformed by the sole ministry of law into a corporation, the pertinent provisions of said law being fully applicable.  which in this case will prevail over the bylaws. The shareholders' meeting held after this fact, must resolve the adjustments that reflect the new corporate modality and elect the members of the board of directors that will continue the administration.2. Article 507a shall be replaced by the following:"Article 507 bis.- The limited partnership that for twelve consecutive months meets the conditions that oblige the closed corporation to register its shares in the Securities Registry of Law No. 18,045, by the sole ministry of the law shall be transformed into a corporation, the pertinent provisions of said law being fully applicable,  which in this case will prevail over the bylaws. The next shareholders' meeting must resolve the adjustments that reflect the new corporate modality and elect the members of the board of directors that will continue the administration.Article 35.- The first article of Law No. 20,712, which regulates the administration of third-party funds and individual portfolios, shall be amended to read as follows:1. Article 4 (c) shall be replaced by the following:"c) Once the volume of business or clients that the Commission for the Financial Market has established by means of a general rule, which allows it to be reasonably presumed that the risks faced by the entity may compromise public faith and financial stability, must have a minimum equity, which must be greater than the greater of:1. 5,000 development units, or2. 3% of its assets weighted by financial and operational risks calculated in accordance with the method established for this purpose by the Commission through a general rule. In the case of entities that present deficiencies in their risk management, this percentage may be increased to 6% by the Commission in response to the evaluation of the quality of risk management carried out by the Commission."2. In Article 8, the following new final paragraph shall be added:"In the event that algorithms or systems are used to automate the functions referred to in the preceding paragraph, it must be accredited to the Commission that they comply with the necessary suitability for the proper performance of such functions. For these purposes, the Commission shall determine, by means of a general rule, the circumstances that must be established in order to be considered that such algorithms or systems have the suitability indicated, such as their inviolability or others."3. Article 12 shall be replaced by the following:"Article 12.- Minimum guarantee. Once the turnover or number of clients that could be affected by the actions or omissions of the administrator has been reached, as established by the Commission as a general rule, the administrators must constitute a guarantee for the benefit of each fund to ensure compliance with their obligations by the administration of the latter.This guarantee will be of an initial amount equivalent to 10,000 units of promotion and may be constituted in cash, bank slip or insurance policies, provided that the payment of the latter two is not subject to any condition other than the mere occurrence of the respective event or loss. In the event that the guarantee is not constituted or does not remain permanently in force, the administrator and its directors shall be jointly and severally liable for the damages that this breach will cause to the unit-holders."4. Article 13 (iii) shall be replaced by the following:"iii) That percentage of the daily assets of the fund, corresponding to the calendar quarter prior to the date of its update, determined by the Commission according to the quality of the risk management possessed by the administrator in question. The quality of risk management shall be measured in accordance with the methodology established by the Commission by means of a general rule, which shall take into account the quality of the entity's corporate governance and risk management, and that the resulting amount does not render the administrator's business model unviable."5. The final paragraph of Article 98 shall be replaced by the following:"In the event that algorithms or systems are used that automate the functions referred to in the preceding paragraph, it must be accredited to the Commission that they comply with the necessary suitability for the proper performance of such functions. For such purposes, the regulations indicated in the previous paragraph must determine the circumstances that must be accredited to consider that such algorithms or systems have the indicated suitability.Portfolio Managers registered in the Registry that have reached the amount of assets managed, turnover or number of potential direct affected by the actions or omissions of the entity, which the Commission has established by general rule, will be subject to the same minimum equity requirements and guarantees that this law requires of fund administrators.Article 36.- Law No. 19,913, which creates the Financial Analysis Unit and amends various provisions on money laundering, shall be amended as follows:1. In the first paragraph of Article 2 (f), after the full stop, which becomes full stop, the following sentence shall be added:"However, the Financial Analysis Unit shall be empowered to issue differentiated and proportional instructions for different types of obliged subjects, taking into account the nature of the operations carried out by them and taking into account the actual risks to which these subjects are exposed if they are used to commit the crimes referred to in Article 27 or Article 8 of Law No. 18,314."2. In the first paragraph of Article 3, after the phrase "securities depository companies governed by Law No. 18,876", add the following: "; those who are registered in the Register of Financial Service Providers and in the Register of Payment Initiation Service Providers maintained by the Commission for the Financial Market and provide the services of collective financing platform, alternative transaction systems, custody of financial instruments, intermediation of those instruments; and initiation of payments. The same reporting obligation shall apply to other natural or legal persons who, by virtue of any of their business activities, are subject to the supervision of the Financial Market Commission and who have voluntarily requested their registration in the register referred to in Article 40. The voluntary registration referred to above may not be terminated until the person has lost the status of supervised by that Commission."Article 37.- The General Banking Law, the consolidated, systematized and agreed text of which was established by Decree with force of law No. 3 of 1997, of the Ministry of Finance, shall be amended as follows:1. In the second paragraph of Article 2, after the full stop, which becomes full stop, the following sentence shall be inserted: "For all legal purposes, it shall be understood that the aforementioned means of payment include digital, electronic or computer representations, registered through systems that use distributed ledger technologies or other analogous technologies,  of units whose value is directly determinable and backed by money, whether domestic or foreign currency, or documents containing obligations payable in any of those currencies, and subject to such representations and systems complying with minimum security standards and conditions,  reliability, acceptability, use, massiveness, among others, that the Central Bank of Chile establishes by general rule."2. Articles 37 and 38 shall be replaced by the following:"Article 37.- Banking companies are institutions of compulsory operation and shall be subject to the provisions established by the Commission regarding minimum operating hours, opening and closing of offices and branches, and mechanisms or channels enabled for the attention of the public. No banking undertaking may commence, suspend or terminate its operations without the prior authorisation of the Commission.Banks, before opening any branch within the country, must inform the Commission. The latter, by means of a general rule, shall determine the background information that must be attached to prove the necessary requirements for the opening of the office and its registration.Notwithstanding the foregoing, institutions that are classified in the last two categories, according to Article 60, will require express authorization for such opening. In this case, the Commission must decide within ninety working days from the submission of the application and, in order to reject it, it must issue a reasoned decision.The Commission shall determine, by means of a general rule, the requirements and conditions to be met by banking undertakings for the closure of branches. Likewise, the bank that decides to close any of its branches must notify the Commission, which will verify compliance with the pre-established requirements and conditions.Article 38.- It shall be the responsibility of the Commission to establish, by means of a general rule, the minimum conditions that banking companies must meet in matters of attention to the public, whether in offices, branches or correspondent offices or through other channels of attention to the public that they have. They must also comply with the requirements established by the Commission for their operation, which will include elements such as the security standards of the operations carried out through these channels and the minimum availability of them, among others.The Commission, by means of regulations or well-founded resolution, in view of the nature of the service provided or market conditions, may establish the obligation to have certain service channels, determine the distribution of hours, conditions and requirements of operation, availability or other conditions of the same nature that the Commission determines.Likewise, the Commission may determine the obligation of banking companies to implement an appropriate channel for dealing with customer complaints in consideration of the number of customers and type of service provided, which must comply with the characteristics and conditions defined by the Commission by means of a general rule, in proportion to the number of customers and type of service provided by the entity.3. The second paragraph of Article 74 shall be replaced by the following:"Banking support companies shall establish public, general, objective and non-discriminatory conditions of access for the provision of services to issuers and operators of the means of payment described in the second subparagraph of Article 2, as well as to other institutions or third parties authorized by the Commission, subject to compliance with the other conditions and requirements established by the Commission by means of a general rule."4. The first paragraph of Article 155 shall be replaced by the following:"Article 155.- The institutions subject to the supervision of the Commission by virtue of this Law shall be obliged to keep for six years their books, forms, correspondence, documents and ballots. The Commission may authorise the deletion of part of this archive before that period and require certain documents or books to be kept for longer periods. It may also empower them to preserve such documentation in media other than paper, by means of technological systems that ensure its fidelity to the original. The provisions of paragraph 17 of Article 5 of Decree Law No. 3,538 of 1980 shall be applicable in full."Article 38.- Amend Law No. 20,009, which establishes a regime of limitation of liability for holders or users of payment cards and electronic transactions in case of loss, theft, theft or fraud, as follows:1. The fifth paragraph of Article 4 shall be replaced by the following:"In cases where the user does not know he has authorized an operation, it will be up to the issuer to prove that it was authorized by the user and that it is registered in his name. In the case of a payment or electronic transfer initiated through a payment initiation service provider, it shall be for that payment initiation service provider to prove that, within its field of competence, the transaction was authorised by the user and recorded as instructed by the user.";2. The following new seventh paragraph shall be inserted in Article 5, with the current seventh paragraph becoming the eighth paragraph:"In the case of a payment or electronic transfer initiated through a payment initiation service provider, if the payment initiation service provider is responsible for the unauthorized transaction, the payment initiation service provider shall compensate the issuer for the losses incurred or the sums paid for reimbursement to the user, including the amount of the unauthorized transaction.";3. Article 6 shall be replaced by the following:"Article 6.- Issuers, operators, merchants and other establishments affiliated to a payment card system, as well as other entities that intervene or provide services associated with payments and electronic transactions, or other systems with similar characteristics, including payment initiation service providers, must adopt the necessary security measures to prevent the commission of the offenses described in this law and the protection of the privacy of the  Data of the holders or users of means of payment in accordance with the legislation and regulations that are applicable to them, and will ensure the safe provision of the respective service in the terms indicated by Article 23 of Law No. 19,496.In the case of issuers or operators, as appropriate, such security measures must consider, at least, the following: a) Have monitoring systems that aim to detect those operations that do not correspond to the usual behavior of the user; b) Implement internal procedures to manage the alerts generated by such monitoring systems; c) Identify patterns of potential fraud, in accordance with industry practices and recommendations, which should be incorporated into the operations monitoring system; d) Establish limits and controls in the various channels of attention to mitigate losses due to fraud. Those limits and controls must be based on objective, general and non-discriminatory risk considerations relating to the nature of the means of payment and the type of transactions it allows to be carried out.The Commission for the Financial Market will define through the regulations it dictates, the requirements that must be met by the issuers and operators of payment cards subject to its supervision in accordance with the provisions of article 2 of the General Banking Law, as well as the security measures to be adopted by the providers of payment initiation services regulated in article 30 of the Law that promotes competition and financial inclusion through innovation and technology in the provision of financial services, Fintec Act.The lack or deficiency of such measures will be considered for the determination of the responsibilities corresponding to each of them, which may be pursued against the user or another affected.The indicated is without prejudice to the possibility that issuers may pursue compliance with the corresponding obligation of restitution or reimbursement, for cancellations of charges or returns of funds, based on the security standards and procedures required of each of the entities indicated above, in accordance with this law,  other applicable laws and regulations, bearing in mind the contractual terms and conditions that bind them and their responsibility in each case.";Article 39.- The following new final paragraph shall be incorporated into Article 30 of Law No. 21,236, which regulates financial portability:"The communications between suppliers mentioned in the previous paragraph must be carried out through the remote and automated access interfaces available to the suppliers involved in a financial portability process, once the aforementioned suppliers have the status of participants in the Open Finance System contemplated in Title III of the Law that promotes financial competition and inclusion through innovation and technology in the provision of  financial services, Fintec Act."Article 40.- Decree with force of law No. 251 of 1931 of the Ministry of Finance on insurance companies, corporations and stock exchanges shall be amended as follows:1. The following new subparagraph (n) shall be added to Article 3:"n) Establish, by means of a general rule, the minimum conditions that insurance companies and insurance intermediaries must meet in terms of customer service, both in their offices and branches, if they have them, and in other channels that they enable for that purpose. They must comply with the requirements established for their operation by the Commission, considering elements such as the security standards of the operations carried out through these channels and the minimum availability of them, and other rules instructed by the Commission, in order to establish quality standards and minimum services according to the products and services they offer.The Commission, by means of regulations, in view of the nature of the service provided or market conditions, may establish the obligation to have certain service channels, determine the distribution of hours, operating conditions and requirements, availability and any other provision that it determines.Likewise, the Commission may determine the obligation of the entities supervised under this law to implement an appropriate channel for dealing with customer complaints in consideration of the number of customers and type of service provided, which must conform to the characteristics and conditions that it defines by general rule, in proportion to the number of customers and type of service provided by the entity.2. The following new final paragraphs shall be added to Article 11:"Insurance may be agreed as parametric, that is, that, in the event of the occurrence of the risk or harmful event, contemplated in the contract, the compensation is paid without the insured having to justify the existence or amount of the damages, and even if they do not occur. The insured must be really exposed to suffer damage before the occurrence of the accident, even if said damage does not finally materialize. For this modality, the variables and risks must be demonstrable and clearly measurable through objective procedures and the risk must be insurable according to the general rules.The Commission shall establish for parametric insurance, by means of a general rule, the criteria to which will be subject, among others, the variables that may be taken as indices, the risks that will be insurable under this modality and the characteristics of the policies that are deposited. Pension insurance, those that are mandatory and those that are required as a requirement for the development of a certain activity may not be contracted under this modality.The Commission shall determine, by means of a general rule, the rules applicable to insurance undertakings and auxiliaries of the insurance trade with regard to the marketing, distribution, expeditious settlement of claims and management of claims relating to inclusive insurance, microinsurance and mass insurance, understood as those destined for sectors excluded or underserved from the market regardless of their level of economic income,  those intended for low-income sectors of the population, or those likely to be distributed by mass marketing means, respectively.The Commission may establish differentiated rules for this type of insurance in terms of coverage and exclusions, issuance of simplified policies or proof of contracting and technological means through which the obligation to provide information to the insured and beneficiaries can be fulfilled in accordance with the rules of the Commercial Code, advisory obligations,  receipt of complaints and settlement of claims, taking into account the nature of the risks or profile of clients to whom they are addressed.".3. In Article 23(2)(g), point "(i)" shall be replaced by point "(j)".4. In Article 23 (2) (h) (iv), point "(i)" shall be replaced by "(j)".5. Repeal Article 57 bis introduced by Law No. 21.314.Article 41.- The following amendments shall be made to Law No. 18,876, which establishes the legal framework for the constitution and operation of private securities depository and custody entities:1. The following new final paragraph shall be added to Article 18:"The requirements and requirements established in this Law may be exempted as determined by the Commission by means of a general rule, with respect to those companies that, due to the nature of the service provided, in terms of the number or type of depositors, volume of operations, or other conditions of a similar nature, do not compromise public faith or financial stability by not exceeding the limits established in the respective general rule or in response to the conditions that it establishes. Likewise, the Commission may establish less burdensome forms of compliance with the requirements and requirements of this law, when the limits established in the respective general rule are not exceeded or when the new forms of compliance do not compromise public faith or financial stability.2. The following new subparagraph (i) shall be added to Article 20:"i) Comply with the corporate governance and risk management requirements determined by the Commission through a general rule."Article 42.- Law No. 19,220, which regulates the establishment of product exchanges, shall be amended as follows:1. In paragraph 1) of the first paragraph of Article 2:(a) In the first paragraph, delete the phrase "and a number of members of at least eight product corridors".(b) In the second paragraph:i. Delete the phrase ", the number of runners or".ii. Replace the words "deficits produced" with "deficits produced".iii. Delete the phrase "or the number of its member brokers".2. In Article 6, the following new second paragraph shall be inserted, the current second and third paragraphs becoming third and fourth paragraphs respectively:"Product brokers may also act as stockbrokers in the Stock Exchanges governed by Law No. 18,045, being considered as such for all purposes of that law."3. Article 7 shall be replaced by the following:"Article 7.- For the purposes of determining compliance with the necessary requirements for its inspection, the Commission shall keep a Register of Commodity Exchange Brokers, hereinafter the "Register of Brokers", in which the legal entities that accredit, to the satisfaction of the Commission, the following must be registered:a) Have corporate governance, internal controls and risk management systems that allow the broker to adequately fulfill its duties and responsibilities, as evaluated by the Commission. They must use the methodology established for these purposes by means of a general rule.b) Have personnel who have sufficient suitability and knowledge for the proper performance of the activities carried out.(c) once the turnover established by the Commission as a general rule has been achieved and which gives rise to a reasonable presumption that the risks faced by the product broker may jeopardise public confidence and financial stability, they must permanently maintain a minimum equity calculated in the manner determined by the Commission by means of a general rule;  which must be the equivalent of the greater of: i) 5,000 development units; or (ii) 3 per cent of the financial and operational risk-weighted assets of the entity calculated in accordance with the method established by the Commission by means of a general rule. In the case of entities that present deficiencies in their risk management, this percentage may be increased to 6% by the Commission in response to the evaluation of the quality of risk management that it carries out.d) Constitute the guarantees in the form and for the amounts established in this law.e) Not have been sanctioned with the expulsion of a commodity exchange or a stock exchange, nor have been ordered the cancellation of its registration in the Registers kept for that purpose by the Commission.(f) Not have been convicted of an offence deserving an afflictive penalty or for the offences referred to in Articles 37 and 38, nor have been administratively punished for engaging in the conduct constituting an offence under this Act, Laws Nos. 18.045, 18.046, 20.712 and 20.720 of Decree with force of law No. 3;  of 1997 of the Ministry of Finance and Decree with force of law No. 251 of 1931 of the Ministry of Finance.g) Not be subject to bankruptcy liquidation proceedings.The Commission shall establish, by means of a general rule, the means and manner in which the interested parties must prove the circumstances indicated in this article and the background information that for that purpose must accompany their applications for registration.Those who are not registered in the aforementioned Register may not advertise their character as brokers of products, nor use letterheads, plates or any distinctive that individualizes them as such.4. In Article 10, the following new final paragraph shall be added:"These rules shall indicate the method to be applied to comply with these conditions, which shall be established on the basis of the Commission's assessment of the quality of the risk management process carried out on the institution."5. Article 11 shall be replaced by the following:"Article 11.- Once the turnover or the number of clients that could be affected by the actions or omissions of the broker have been reached, as established by the Commission by general rule, the brokers must constitute a guarantee to ensure compliance with their obligations as intermediaries of products.The guarantee must be constituted for the amount determined by the Commission, according to the parameters established by means of a general rule, taking into account the impact or potential damage that the entity may cause to its clients, the quality of the corporate governance and risk management of the entity, and that the resulting amount does not make its business model unviable.The guarantee may be constituted in cash, bank slip, insurance policy, pledge on products, pledge on shares of public limited companies or other securities offered to the public, with the exception of shares issued by the stock exchanges in which they participate. The guarantee constituted must be kept adjusted in the same proportion in which the amount of the development unit varies. The constitution of guarantees on pledge of shares of public limited companies or on other securities of public offering, may not exceed 40% of the total surety.Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraphs, the Commission, by means of a general rule, may replace the aforementioned individual guarantee with a co-financed one, which must be of a sufficient amount and adequate characteristics to face the risks of the entities that co-finance it, in order to reconcile the protection of public faith and financial stability with the economic viability of the business models of the product brokers.6. Article 16 shall be replaced by the following:"Article 16.- The Commission, by means of a well-founded resolution and after hearing the affected party, may suspend for up to a maximum period of one year or cancel the registration of a broker in the Registry of Brokers for having incurred in any of the following causes:(a) it has failed to remedy within six months the serious deficiencies notified to it by the Commission in relation to the requirement of Article 7(a) or no longer satisfies the requirements of Article 7(b), (c), (d), (e), (f) and (g); Notwithstanding the foregoing, in qualified cases, the Commission may grant the interested party an additional period of up to one hundred and eighty working days to remedy the deficiencies related to letter a) of Article 7. Similarly, it may grant the same period, also in qualified cases, to remedy deficiencies related to points (b), (c), (d) and (g) of that Article.In the event that the minimum equity of a broker decreases to an amount lower than that established in Article 7 or the entity ceases to comply with the conditions of liquidity, indebtedness or solvency, it must communicate that fact to the Commission as soon as it becomes aware of it and submit a regularization plan within five calendar days,  which may be extended by the Commission up to a total of ten calendar days. This plan must contain specific measures for the aforementioned deficit that allow it to remedy the situation in which it finds itself and ensure its normal operation. As long as this situation continues, it must refrain from carrying out new operations that deteriorate its financial situation.Likewise, in the event that the Commission becomes aware that an entity is in the cases indicated in the preceding paragraph or when it is foreseeable that it will incur a capital deficit imminently if market circumstances continue or in response to the actions of the entity itself, and this has not been communicated to it in a timely manner,  the Commission may require the institution to submit a regularisation plan. If the shortfall is not remedied within six months of its occurrence, the institution must cease to provide the intermediation service and submit to the Commission a programme for termination of operations and transfer of customers.From the date of receipt of the program referred to in the preceding paragraph, the Commission may appoint a provisional auditor or administrator, for the period determined by reasoned resolution. The administration of the institution shall, in the performance of its functions, be subject to instructions from the financial controller or financial controllers appointed by the Commission. The auditor shall have all the powers of the ordinary course of business that the law and the bylaws indicate to the board of directors, or to whoever takes his place, and to the general manager. The appointment of financial controller shall be made by officials of the Commission or by duly qualified external professionals, subject to their meeting the requirements of suitability and technical capacity determined by the Commission by means of a general rule. In the latter case, the financial controller's services shall be remunerated from the Commission's annual budget.(b) Committing serious violations of the obligations imposed on it by this Act, its supplementary rules, the instructions issued by the Commission or other provisions governing them.(c) Engaging in culpable or wilful form in transactions resulting in artificial price disturbances; or conduct tending to restrict competition in the product market and any other participation not consistent with sound practices in the product or securities markets.d) Cease to perform the function of active broker for more than one year, without just cause.e) Participate in stock market transactions of products whose characteristics and conditions do not meet the minimum standards established in the registers registered in the Register of Products, or in stock market transactions of products whose quotation has been suspended.(f) cease to fulfil obligations arising from product transactions in which it has taken part.";Article 43.- The following new paragraph 36 shall be inserted in Article 5 of Decree Law No. 3,538 of 1980, which creates the Commission for the Financial Market, and the current paragraph shall become paragraph 37:"36. Establish, by means of a general rule, the minimum conditions that must be met by the supervised institutions in matters of attention to the public, both in their offices and branches, if they have them, and in other channels that they enable for that purpose. They must also comply with the requirements established for their operation by the Commission, considering elements such as the security standards of the operations carried out through these channels and the minimum availability of them, and other rules instructed by the Commission, in order to establish quality standards and minimum services according to the products and services they offer.The Commission, by means of regulations or well-founded resolution, in view of the nature of the service provided or market conditions, may establish the obligation to have certain service channels, determine the distribution of hours, conditions and requirements of operation, availability or other conditions of the same nature that the Commission determines.Likewise, the Commission may determine the obligation of the entities supervised under this law to implement an appropriate channel for dealing with customer complaints in consideration of the number of customers and type of service provided, which must conform to the characteristics and conditions defined by the Commission by general rule.Article 44.- In paragraph d) of Article 73 of Law No. 10,336, which regulates the organization and powers of the Office of the Comptroller General of the Republic, the consolidated text of which was established by Decree No. 2421 of 1964 of the Ministry of Finance, the expression "the President of the Republic" shall be replaced by "the Commission for the Financial Market".Article 45.- Article 3 of Law No. 21,314, which establishes new transparency requirements and reinforces the responsibilities of market agents, regulates social security advice, and other matters indicated, shall be repealed.Article 46.- The following new number 10 shall be added to Article 19 of Law No. 18,833, changing its current number 10 to number 11:"10.- To constitute companies with the exclusive purpose of providing one or more of the services of collective financing platform, routing of orders, intermediation of financial instruments, credit advice and investment advice in accordance with the second paragraph of article 5 of the law that promotes competition and financial inclusion through innovation and technology in the provision of financial services,  Fintec Act."Transitional provisionsThis law shall enter into force thirty days after its publication in the Official Gazette, with the exception of titles II and III, articles 32, 35, and No. 2 of article 37, which shall apply from the entry into force of the respective regulations issued by the Commission for the Financial Market in accordance with the provisions of such titles and articles.  with the exception of Article 24 of Law No. 18.045, which is incorporated by Article 32, number 5 of this Law, with regard to the power for securities intermediaries to act as brokers in the Commodity Exchanges governed by Law No. 19.220. Without prejudice to the provisions of the third transitory article, said rules must be issued within a maximum period of eighteen months from the publication of this law.The persons who provide the services regulated in Title II of this law and who must be registered in the Register of Financial Services Providers, must comply with the obligation to request their registration and authorization to operate before the Commission in the terms established in the general rule issued for this purpose,  within a period not exceeding twelve months from the entry into force of the aforementioned standard. Such persons may continue to carry out such activities until the Commission has taken a decision on their request in the manner and within the time limits laid down in Article 7.The entities referred to in the previous paragraph that do not request their registration and authorization to operate within the period of twelve months provided for in said paragraph or do not obtain it once requested, must refrain from continuing to provide their services for the celebration of new operations and must only perform the acts tending to the conclusion of the existing operations regulated in this law. They must notify their clients of this circumstance and the manner in which the operations will be concluded.The Commission for the Financial Market shall issue the necessary regulations for the implementation of the Open Finance System in accordance with the provisions of Title III of this law within a maximum period of eighteen months from its publication.It will be up to the Commission to define, as a general rule, the calendar for the gradual implementation of the Open Finance System that will govern the Information Providing Institutions, Account Provider Institutions; Information-Based Service Providers and Payment Initiation Service Providers.To this end, the Commission may establish successive phases of implementation or differentiated deadlines in consideration of the type of participating institution, type of financial products and services offered to customers, customer segments and types of data or information covered by the Open Finance System, as referred to in Articles 17, 18 and 20,  in order to achieve an adequate functioning of the Open Finance System.However, the Commission shall ensure that the Open Finance System is fully implemented by banks and payment card issuers as Information Providing Institutions and Account Provider Institutions, as well as by Payment Initiation Service Providers, within a period not exceeding eighteen months from the entry into force of the provisions issued by the Commission,  and within a maximum period of thirty-six months from the entry into force of said regulations with respect to the remaining entities that the Commission qualifies as Information Providing Institutions.Article four.- The entities that on the date of entry into force of this law and with the consent of the client are providing the payment initiation services regulated in Title III of this law, making use of their credentials, means of authentication or through other mechanisms authorized by the clients,  must comply with the obligation to apply for registration with the Commission in the terms established in the general rules issued for this purpose, within a period not exceeding twelve months from the entry into force of these provisions. Such persons may continue to carry out such activities until the Commission resolves their request in the manner and within the time limits provided for in Title III of this Law.The entities referred to in the previous paragraph that do not request their registration within the aforementioned period or that do not obtain it once requested, must refrain from continuing to provide their services for the celebration of new operations and must carry out only the acts tending to the conclusion of the existing operations regulated in this law,  notifying its clients of this circumstance and the manner in which the operations will be concluded.During the first five years from the entry into force of this law, the Ministry of Finance shall prepare an annual report on the effects of its application in the respective markets, and its impact in areas of competition, innovation and financial inclusion, including (i) statistics regarding the entities that have been registered in the Register of Financial Service Providers referred to in Title II of this law, and (ii) description of the process of implementation of the Open Finance System, including statistics of entities registered in the respective registries, as well as quantitative analysis of volumes of information consultations and payment orders instructed through said System, among other relevant indicators. The report referring to the previous chronological year must be sent before March 31 of the following year to the Finance Committees of the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies.The acts constituting an offence perpetrated prior to the entry into force of this law, as well as the penalties and other consequences to be imposed by them, shall be determined in accordance with the law in force at the time of their perpetration.If this law enters into force during the commission of the act, the provisions of it shall apply, provided that in the subsequent perpetration phase the new legal description of the act will be fully carried out.If the application of this law is more favorable to the accused or accused for an act perpetrated prior to its entry into force, the provisions of this law shall apply.In order to determine whether the application of this Law is more favourable, all the rules provided for therein that are relevant to the judgment of the act shall be considered.For the purposes of the provisions of the first and second preceding paragraphs, the offence shall be deemed to have been committed at the time or during the period in which the punishable act is carried out or the punishable omission is incurred.The largest fiscal expenditure represented by the application of this law, during its first budgetary year of validity, will be financed with the resources contemplated in the budget of the Commission for the Financial Market and, as far as it is not possible, charged to those that are consulted in the Public Treasury Budget Item of the corresponding budget year.Article eight.- The maximum staffing of Item 08, Chapter 31, Program 01, Commission for the Financial Market, of the Public Sector Budget Law shall be increased by 17 quotas.Article nine.- In accordance with the provisions of the final paragraph of Article 19 and the final paragraph of Article 20, the following behaviors shall be understood as very serious infractions of the legal obligations regarding the protection of personal data and only as long as Law No. 19,628 does not define a catalog for behaviors of the same gravity, the following behaviors:a) Carry out fraudulent processing of personal data.b) Maliciously allocate personal data to a purpose other than that consented to by the owner or provided for in the law that authorizes its treatment.c) Communicate or transfer, knowingly, untruthful, incomplete, inaccurate or outdated information about the owner of data.d) Violate the duty of secrecy or confidentiality on sensitive personal data and personal data relating to the commission and punishment of criminal, civil, administrative and disciplinary offenses.e) Treat, communicate or transfer, knowingly, sensitive personal data or personal data of children and adolescents, in contravention of the rules of this law.f) Deliberately omit the communication of breaches of security measures that may affect the confidentiality, availability or integrity of personal data.g) Carry out massive processing of personal data contained in electronic records of criminal, civil, administrative and disciplinary offenses carried out by public bodies, without having legal authorization to do so.h) Knowingly carry out international data transfer operations in contravention of the rules on the protection of personal data."Having complied with the provisions of article 93, paragraph 1, of the Political Constitution of the Republic and as I have been kind enough to approve and sanction it; therefore, it is promulgated and carried into effect as a Law of the Republic.Santiago, December 22, 2022.- GABRIEL BORIC FONT, President of the Republic.- Mario Marcel Cullell, Minister of Finance.What I transcribe to you for your knowledge.- Greetings Atty. to you, Claudia Sanhueza Riveros, Undersecretary of Finance.Constitutional courtDraft law that promotes financial competition and inclusion through innovation and technology in the provision of financial services, Fintec Law, corresponding to bulletin No. 14.570-05The Secretary of the Constitutional Court, who undersigned, certifies that the Honorable Chamber of Deputies sent the bill set forth in the item, approved by the National Congress, in order for this Court to exercise control of constitutionality with respect to the fourth paragraph of article 20; Article 30(1); and draft article 31, nos. 1 and 2; and by judgment of December 6, 2022, in Roll No. 13.753-22-CPR.It is declared:That no pronouncement is issued, in preventive examination of constitutionality, regarding the fourth paragraph of article 20, number 1 of article 30 and numbers 1 and 2 of article 31 of the bill that promotes competition and financial inclusion through innovation and technology in the provision of financial services,  Fintec Law, corresponding to bulletin No. 14.570-05, for not regulating matters reserved to the Constitutional Organic Law.Santiago, December 9, 2022.- Mara Anglica Barriga Meza, Secretary.Close